All right, next up, we're going to learn about the Care Act or CHA Act, as probably most developers
would pronounce, but I don't know why they would say that because this is short for character.
So I call it Care Act.
So we're going to learn about that method.
So back to the A.D. and again, we'll strip out what will strip out what was already there, and I'm
going to get rid of that method there.
All right.
And as usual, we will create a string by text equals and or no apples.
All right, and again, we'll do a system that out that print line, and we'll pass in the my text.
OK, now the carrot is pretty simple, it's just a method that just gives us back the character that
we're pointing to with an index.
So if I call the carrot method here and I pass in the number three, for example, that should give
me the fourth character in the my text string.
The fourth character would be one to three for the L.
So let's see if that's correct.
So if we run this, yep, there we go.
Lowercase l right there.
OK.
Keep in mind that the input for the carrot method is the index of the character that you want, starting
with zero right zero and it is zero based.
And that's why three here gives us the fourth character because the first character is zero, so this
would be zero one two three right there.
I suppose.
One thing I should mention is that you can get some really nasty errors with methods that take indexes
like this if you provide them with an index that is out of the range of the string.
So in other words, this string is one to one two three four or five six characters long.
So if I were to supply a number that is beyond the range of this string, let's see what happens.
So if I give it a nine right, I tell it to give me the ninth character.
Let's see what happens here.
Yeah, so the program blew up, and the way I know that the program blew up is because we have all this
nasty red text here.
OK.
So what happened was the Java through what's called an exception.
That's an error.
An exception is an error, if you will, in layman's terms.
And it's saying the string index out of bounds exception.
That's the type of exception or the type of error that Java generated because we were asking it to give
us a character that was outside of the range of the width of this.
So be super careful with methods that take indexes and things of that sort.
It's very easy to accidentally write code that exceeds those ranges or limits.
Just know that there are definitely ways that we can sometimes protect ourselves from from things like
this.
So, for example, you already learned here, I'm going to just show you this real quick.
You already learned that you can zero.
I'll make a variable here length.
You can capture the length of a string like this.
OK.
And then we haven't learned how to do this yet, but we could write a little bit of logic.
In fact, I'll give you a quick sneak preview here.
We could say something like if the length is greater than whatever magic number we want to use, which
in this case the magic number is nine.
Then we would allow.
Then we would allow this code to execute.
Otherwise, that code would not execute.
OK.
And in fact, let's see here if we run this now.
It does nothing, but it doesn't blow up anymore because the length is not greater than nine, and therefore
this line of code right here isn't running at all.
So we can do things like this to protect ourselves from out of range exceptions and things of that sort.
All right.
That's a little sneak preview of something we're going to learn in the future anyway.
So we used this care at earlier.
If you'll recall, we did something like middle name equals Christopher, right?
And then we wanted to grab just the first character out of that, because many times when you ask for
a first name, middle name and last name, many times you'll just print only the middle initial and
you don't need the whole entire name, right?
And so if we wanted to have a method that could take a full middle name but just return the middle initial?
Well, then what you would have that method do is to simply return the zero with character just like
that, right?
I'm going to get rid of it.
And that is indeed what we did in that method, if you recall.
OK.
So that might be one reason you'd want to do that, and I'm sure we can think of others as well, but
that's going to conclude this quick little lesson.
See, in the next one.